We seen AI copilot help with code hinting.
We seen AI code generator create entire test scripts.

But that ain't enough
( as a project manager / tech lead ..... )

Those chains ain’t deep enough, we need to go deeper

Introducing “The English Compiler”

Have a giant pile of technical specification written in markdown, for your next hot startup?
But do not have any junior developers to implement it?

Convert it to code with “The English Compiler”

Run the compilation command …
Make a cup of coffee ….

And presto, a fully working app.
With junior developer level bugs included!

How does the magic work?

Because token size is such a hard annoying limitation, a giant prompt chain was developed for the process.

(Show giant chain)

When you write your specification, if it ain’t clear enough, 
We have a prompt chain to provide feedback, and make improvements.

Once your drafted specification is acceptable, you can compile it.

If a single specification document grows too large, we split it into smaller chunks.
We generate the high level skeleton code, to avoid the token limit. This intentionally does not have function implementation.

We split up each function subsequently, onto its own prompt chain, with parts of the specification docs specific to the function.
If those are too large, we may split it into multiple smaller “helper functions”

And Because multiple functions can end up pulling multiple dependencies.
We extract the dependencies needed with another chain.

Finally we put all the various code together.
And presto, we have a fully working code file.

Ready to go

You can download the compiler, and give it a try today!
And burn multiple dollars of openAI credits per code file.

But one more geeky thing…
A compiler can only be considered complete, when it can compile itself.
And that’s what we did!

(Go really fast)
Disclaimer and warranty:
While the proof of concept works as per the demo, the whole concept “in my oppinion” is not production ready. The compiler is ridiculously slow due to its incredibly long chain, taking anywhere from 1 to 20 minutes for larger files. It also works like any human or any codegen tools, and code with bugs as mistakes. And it cannot salvage your terribly written specifications.

As such, when combined with its incredibly slow speed, the current solution not practical - its probably easier for most good devs to just code it themselves. Then iterate on the spec and waiting for 20 minutes for every minor 1 line bug.

(Back to normal)
But here is the kicker - It may be slow, and impractical like the first nuclear power plant …
But it works… this is the future….

I do not need a smarter AI, I only need larger token context size, and faster AI.
Which we know will happen within the next decade.

So ….

“Unless I’m teaching you JavaScript fundamentals, everything I teach will be taught with English & AI going forward”

Feel free to reach out, if you want to support the future of writing code with English!