We seen AI copilot help with code hinting.
We seen AI code generator create entire test scripts.

But that ain’t enough

What we all want is a Jarvis.
Where we can explain what we want in plain English.
And everything just gets done.

So, Introducing the “English Compiler”

Have a giant pile of technical specification written down, 
for your next hot startup?

Just convert it to code with “The English Compiler”

You can ask if for sarcastic feedback
Make changes to your spec with it

And once you have somewhat useful spec.
Simply build it to code

Just make sure to have coffee, because its a million time slower then the TV Jarvis.

So how does it work? does it work?

Yes, as you can see, it works.
Everything is opensourced, and you can download and try it yourself.

But is it production ready? No. Its too damn slow.

Because the current generation of AI is limited by token context size

As a result, to get this POC to work

We are forced to process and split all this spec files into various parts, 
Which the AI can process one chunk at a time.
Through multiple phases.

For example, to generate a large java class.
We would generate the high level skeleton code first, without functional logic.

We would then split it up into multiple smaller processes, to build each function in the class.
Iterate it a few times to make the code acceptable quality, through chain-of-thought.

Before putting together all the files. Without AI.

And presto we have a fully working application, junior bugs included.

Of which, we can fix, by updating the specs with more details
Only to wait an entire 10 minutes for it to compile effecitvely a 1 line bug fix.

Pratically speaking, It is faster for me to write both the spec and code by hand.
Not to mention this burns multiple dollars of openAI credits per code file.

- - - 

But thats not the point here.

This POC, is meant to push things to the limit, beyond what is practical.

To prove what is possible for the future. Today.
What we can build towards.

A future, where AI has completely replace almost all form of coding with english.

And if AI can help build an entire application from english alone ...
It can eventually help you build anything ...

It may be slow, and impractical like the first nuclear power plant ...

However this POC, proves that even without a smarter AI models with more parameters ...

All we need next is AI models which is faster, and have larger context size

Which we all know that will happen within the next few decades, if not years, if not months, if not maybe tonight.

And when the compilation time get compressed from 10 minutes, to seconds ...

The future maybe inevitble, a future where English and AI has won ...

So ...

“Unless I’m teaching you JavaScript fundamentals, everything I teach will be taught with English & AI going forward”

Jokes aside,
Feel free to reach out, if you want to help me build the future of writing code with English!

One step at a time.
